=pod

=head1 NAME

rhostck - tell rblsmtpd to block mails from hosts with suspicious names

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<rhostck rblsmtpd> ...

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<rhostck> is supposed to run under B<tcpserver(1)> and to execute
B<rblsmtpd(1)>.

B<rhostck> checks the C<$TCPREMOTEHOST> environment variable. Based on
the name of the remote host B<rhostck> may decide to set the C<$RBLSMTPD>
environment variable in order to tell B<rblsmtpd> to reject the incoming
SMTP delivery request. By default B<rhostck> instructs B<rblsmtpd> to
reject remote hosts without a hostname.

In the environment variable C<$RHOSTCK_DENYPARTS> a space separated list
of name parts of a hostname can be defined, that typically occur in
hostnames of dynamic lines. B<rhostck> splits the remote hostname at the
dots and looks at each part in front of the penultimate dot. C<$RBLSMTPD>
will be set with an error message, if at least one such part exists and
starts with one of the parts given in C<$RHOSTCK_DENYPARTS>.

If the environment variable C<$RHOSTCK_IPHOSTNAME> is filled with a valid
value, the part of remote hostname in front of the penultimate dot is
checked to contain the remote host's ip address (or part of it). Valid
values are C<2>, C<3> and C<4>, which defines the number of bytes from the
binary IP address from LSB to MSB (or numbers of the dot-decimal notation
from right to left) to be used for comparing. The (partial) IP address is
searched in the hostname in decimal and hexdecimal form; the numbers may
be separated by dots or hyphens, or without separators for decimal numbers
each number is expected to be three bytes long and left-zero-padded,
whereas the hexadecimal form uses the usual two nibbles for a byte.
All comparisons are also done in reverse order. If the (partial) remote IP
address is found in the remote hostname in any form described above,
C<$RBLSMTPD> will be set with an error message.

The error message for B<rblsmtpd> is taken from the content of
C<$RHOSTCK_DENYMSG>. If this is not set or emtpy the default text is
C<"-Suspicious hostname - I don't accept mails from hosts on dynamic IP addresses.">;
it starts with a hyphen to instruct B<rblsmtpd> to terminate the
connection with a 553 permanent error.
Eventually B<rhostck> executes the command given as its first argument,
which is B<rblsmtpd> normally.

=head1 SEE ALSO

tcpserver(1), rblsmtpd(1)

L<http://cr.yp.to/ucspi-tcp.html>
